For this lesson, we're going to program our calculator as we only have a bunch of numbers that don't
do anything.
Nothing happens if we click on them.
So when programming this, we have to keep in mind that 14 buttons out of 16 have to show the symbol
on the calculator display once they're clicked.
All numbers and four mathematical symbols should do this.
These buttons are in charge of showing their contents on the display.
Then we have two more buttons c, e and delete, which carry out different tasks.
So let's begin with the 16 buttons we have here.
We'll create a variable named operator.
Operator will store the numbers that are being used by creating a string.
So operator will initialize as an empty string in which all the numbers that are used before selecting,
delete, or obtaining a result will be stored.
We'll create our first function below.
This function will be called every time we click on a button.
So we define it as click button.
This function requires arguments such as a character which can be a number or a symbol depending on
which button is used.
First, we'll access our operator.
Since it is a variable that's outside the function, we'll change it to a global operator and now we
can access it.
Next step is to update the contents in operator because a button has been clicked.
Remember, this function will be called every time a button is used.
So operator will be equal to whatever there is in operator plus the character that's passed to it.
So once operator is updated will go to the calculator display to insert from end the operator.
This would show on the calculator display whatever there is in the operator variable.
Remember, the operator will be collecting all the numbers that are being used.
So now we have to assign the click button function to each of the buttons so that this function is called
every time a button is clicked.
And we're going to do that down here where we created these buttons.
Nevertheless, take into account that these buttons were created in a loop.
Therefore, we cannot assign a function call here because it should assign different contents from each
button.
Hard as we try.
There's no way to do this from a loop.
So if you find a way, please let me know.
So when these buttons are created, we have to store them in variables as to assign the click button
call to those variables.
Let's create a new list before the buttons are created that can be named stored buttons which will be
equal to an empty list.
As regards our loop, once the buttons are created, we're going to add them to that list.
So stored buttons, dot append and here we store the button that has been created.
Once we finish creating the buttons, we'll have a list of stored buttons containing all of our buttons.
So let's go to the end of the loop, and once we're out of it will assign a click button call to each
button on the list.
Naturally, will begin with the first one we call stored buttons in its index zero dot config and we
add command equals lamb BDA so as to add the argument our function is going to need, otherwise we won't
be able to do it.
And here we call click button and we pass in the case of button in index zero String seven because it
is the character of the first button.
So we have the first of them.
We should do this with all 14 buttons.
So let's copy until we have all of them.
That's okay.
Now it's time to replace these with zero one, two, three, and so on.
We mustn't add buttons, see, and delete as they carry out other functions.
We keep on doing this until we reach number 11, because number 12 is the key button and number 13 is
the delete button.
So let's skip them and enter 14 and 15.
Now we enter the order, the keys appearing.
We have seven, eight, nine.
Then the plus sign it is followed by four, five, six and the minus sign.
Then we have one, two and three.
Now it comes the multiplication sign, which is the asterisks, not the x, since we need a character
that can be used in a mathematical operation.
Then we need the zero and finally the division sign.
So we have assigned the call to each of the buttons so that they require a click button to show the
corresponding number or symbol on the calculator display.
Let's check if this works the way we want it to.
So here's our calculator.
I'll click on seven and it's displayed.
Perfect.
I'll click on five and note that it repeats the last entered number and adds the next one seven, then
seven, five, then seven, five, six, and so on.
It generates a whole new string without deleting what's before.
This is something we need to fix.
So let's go all the way up.
And before our operator is shown on the display, we have to call calculator display delete so that
everything that was entered is deleted.
From zero to end.
Now, it shouldn't pile up everything.
Look seven.
Then I click on eight.
That's great.
Now I click on minus six.
No problem there.
Plus and nine.
So now all the buttons are showing what's stored in them except for these two.
Of course, they don't do anything for now.
Okay, so we've programmed all our buttons.
Why?
That was quite fast, wasn't it?
Now we'll create a function that allows us to delete using the delete button.
So let's type D, F and delete.
All this function doesn't require arguments.
It will only call calculator display delete and it will delete everything from zero to end.
Now we have to assign this function to its corresponding button.
So we're going to incorporate it here where we have the rest of the functions corresponding to the buttons.
This new function should be placed in the button whose index is 13, so we don't need to enter all of
this.
This command will be delete all, which is the name of our function.
If we execute this now, we can enter any number or symbol and if we want to delete it, we just click
on delete and that's it.
And yet note that there's another problem we can delete.
Sure, but when we enter something else, display shows the previous characters again because operator
wasn't reset in order to access, operator will change it to global operator and then we'll make operator
B equal to an empty string.
As a result, nothing should pop up if I execute it.
Seven minus six let's delete.
Perfect.
Let's enter something again and no troubles at all.
It's been solved.
The last button we need to set up is the one we obtain the total with.
So let's do that.
We're going to need another function which can be named get the result.
It doesn't require arguments and we need to access global operator as we'll have to use whatever there
is in operator in order to make our calculations.
This is quite easy.
There's a function named eval for evaluate and we're going to evaluate our operator, but this function
will send back an integer.
So we need to put this on a string and store this in a variable which can be named result.
So result will be equal to a string that contains the operator evaluation.
This function is great because it will only read whatever string is in here, say five plus four and
realize it is a mathematical operation even though it is a string.
Therefore it will convert it to nine and then we'll convert that to a string so as to show it on the
calculator display.
Okay.
So first we're going to delete what's on the calculator display.
So let's copy this line, the one that's intended to delete.
And once this is deleted, we call calculate the display again, only this time we insert zero and result.
There's one thing missing.
Once we obtain the result we need to make operator reset itself to an empty string so as to keep on
working.
After this, we'll assign this function to the corresponding button.
So we'll copy this line and we'll assign it to number 12, index 12, and we'll enter the get result
call here.
We should have everything ready by now, so let's execute it.
Let's enter seven minus six, ask for total and it's one.
It worked.
So 23 multiplied by six equals 138.
Our calculator is working, so we're done with this part of our program.
So we continue with the following part.